docs/user/permissions.rst, before:

Permissions
===========

Promgen supports managing user permissions on specific resources.
This allows fine-grained control over who can view or modify certain objects of Promgen.
Permissions can be assigned to users or groups (see: :ref:`group`).

.. image:: /images/members_panel.png

Service and Project permissions
-------------------------------
Permissions can be assigned at both the **Service** and **Project** levels.

Each user or group can have at most one permission per Service or Project: **Admin**, **Editor** and **Viewer**.

- **Admin**: Full control over the Service or Project, including managing permissions.
- **Editor**: Can modify the Service or Project but cannot delete it or manage permissions.
- **Viewer**: Read-only access to the Service or Project.

Inheritance of Permissions
--------------------------
In Promgen, an object could be the child of others. For example, a Project belongs to a Service, or an Exporter belongs to a Project.

.. image:: /images/inheritance_of_models.png

The permissions are **inherited**. This means the person who has a specific permission on the parent object will have that permission on all the children objects.
For example, if a user has Admin permission on a Service, they will automatically have Admin permission on all Projects under that Service.

To keep it simple, an **Editor** can fully control child objects, **unless** the child is a Project.
It means if someone has Editor permission for a Service, they can change and even **delete** all its Rules and Notifiers. However, while they can modify Projects within that Service, they cannot delete them.

The following table summarizes the permissions inheritance:

+---------------------------+----------------+------------------+------------------+----------------+------------------+------------------+
| Target                    | Service's      | Service's        | Service's        | Project's      | Project's        | Project's        |
|                           | Admin          | Editor           | Viewer           | Admin          | Editor           | Viewer           |
+===========================+================+==================+==================+================+==================+==================+
| Service                   | Full control   | View, Update     | View             |                |                  |                  |
+---------------------------+----------------+------------------+------------------+----------------+------------------+------------------+
| Service's Notifier/Rule   | Full control   | Full control     | View             |                |                  |                  |
+---------------------------+----------------+------------------+------------------+----------------+------------------+------------------+
| Service's Project         | Full control   | View, Update     | View             | Full control   | View, Update     | View             |
+---------------------------+----------------+------------------+------------------+----------------+------------------+------------------+
| Project's Notifier/Rule/  |                |                  |                  |                |                  |                  |
| Exporter/URL/Farm/Host    | Full control   | Full control     | View             | Full control   | Full control     | View             |
+---------------------------+----------------+------------------+------------------+----------------+------------------+------------------+

*Full control: View, Create, Update, Delete, Manage Permissions*

**Use cases:**

- User with **Service Admin** permission can manage all aspects of the Service, including its Projects and associated objects.
- User with **Project Admin** permission can manage the specific Project and its associated objects, but cannot see or modify other Projects under the same Service. They cannot even view the parents Service's details unless they have explicit permissions on that Service.
- User with **Service Viewer** permission can only view all aspects of the Service, including its Projects and associated objects, without making any changes.
- User with **Project Viewer** permission can only view the specific Project and its associated objects, but cannot see or modify other Projects under the same Service.
- User with **Service Editor** permission can modify the Service, its associated objects and the Projects under that Service, but cannot delete those Projects. However, they still can delete any associated objects of those Projects (such as Exporters and Farms).
- User with **Project Editor** permission can modify the specific Project and its associated objects. They can also delete associated objects of that Project (such as Exporters and Farms), but cannot delete the Project itself. In addition, they don't have any permissions on other Projects under the same Service.

Commit message:

Only allow the owner to delete the Service and the Project
Currently, any Admin role of a Service or Project can delete it. However, a Service or Project
can have many Admin users while there is only one owner. Additionally, deletion is a dangerous
action because the deleted object will be removed from the database forever. Therefore, we have
made a change that only allows the owner to delete the Service or Project.

docs/user/permissions.rst, after:

Permissions
===========

Promgen supports managing user permissions on specific resources.
This allows fine-grained control over who can view or modify certain objects of Promgen.
Permissions can be assigned to users or groups (see: :ref:`group`).

.. image:: /images/members_panel.png

Service and Project permissions
-------------------------------
Permissions can be assigned at both the **Service** and **Project** levels.

Each user or group can have at most one permission per Service or Project: **Admin**, **Editor** and **Viewer**.

- **Admin**: Full control over the Service or Project, including managing permissions. **Note:** Only the owner can delete the Service or Project.
- **Editor**: Can modify the Service or Project but cannot delete it or manage permissions.
- **Viewer**: Read-only access to the Service or Project.

Inheritance of Permissions
--------------------------
In Promgen, an object could be the child of others. For example, a Project belongs to a Service, or an Exporter belongs to a Project.

.. image:: /images/inheritance_of_models.png

The permissions are **inherited**. This means the person who has a specific permission on the parent object will have that permission on all the children objects.
For example, if a user has Admin permission on a Service, they will automatically have Admin permission on all Projects under that Service.

To keep it simple, an **Editor** can fully control child objects, **unless** the child is a Project.
It means if someone has Editor permission for a Service, they can change and even **delete** all its Rules and Notifiers. However, while they can modify Projects within that Service, they cannot delete them.

The following table summarizes the permissions inheritance:

+---------------------------+----------------+------------------+------------------+----------------+------------------+------------------+
| Target                    | Service's      | Service's        | Service's        | Project's      | Project's        | Project's        |
|                           | Admin          | Editor           | Viewer           | Admin          | Editor           | Viewer           |
+===========================+================+==================+==================+================+==================+==================+
| Service                   | Full control   | View, Update     | View             |                |                  |                  |
+---------------------------+----------------+------------------+------------------+----------------+------------------+------------------+
| Service's Notifier/Rule   | Full control   | Full control     | View             |                |                  |                  |
+---------------------------+----------------+------------------+------------------+----------------+------------------+------------------+
| Service's Project         | Full control   | View, Update     | View             | Full control   | View, Update     | View             |
+---------------------------+----------------+------------------+------------------+----------------+------------------+------------------+
| Project's Notifier/Rule/  |                |                  |                  |                |                  |                  |
| Exporter/URL/Farm/Host    | Full control   | Full control     | View             | Full control   | Full control     | View             |
+---------------------------+----------------+------------------+------------------+----------------+------------------+------------------+

*Full control: View, Create, Update, Delete, Manage Permissions.* *Note: Delete Service or Project is only allowed for the owner.*

**Use cases:**

- User with **Service Admin** permission can manage all aspects of the Service, including its Projects and associated objects, but only the owner can delete the Service or any Project.
- User with **Project Admin** permission can manage the specific Project and its associated objects, but only the owner can delete the Service or any Project.
Project Admin of Project cannot also see or modify other Projects under the same Service. They cannot even view the parents Service's details unless they have explicit permissions on that Service.
- User with **Service Viewer** permission can only view all aspects of the Service, including its Projects and associated objects, without making any changes.
- User with **Project Viewer** permission can only view the specific Project and its associated objects, but cannot see or modify other Projects under the same Service.
- User with **Service Editor** permission can modify the Service, its associated objects and the Projects under that Service, but cannot delete those Projects. However, they still can delete any associated objects of those Projects (such as Exporters and Farms).
- User with **Project Editor** permission can modify the specific Project and its associated objects. They can also delete associated objects of that Project (such as Exporters and Farms), but cannot delete the Project itself. In addition, they don't have any permissions on other Projects under the same Service.
